I've been a Toastmaster for the past
decade but if I could go back to day one
with the knowledge that I have now here
are eight things I wish I knew about
Toast Masters from the very beginning
the first thing is that it's okay to be
nervous I can tell you that to date when
I give a
presentation I get nervous every single
time and what I found from speaking to
many presenters of all abilities from
beginner to professional is that it's
incredibly common to have nerves before
presenting in front of a group of people
in fact I would say a very small
percentage of people don't experience
those nerves and they're not necessarily
the best public speakers sometimes
they're more amateur speakers who don't
have the nerves but it doesn't mean that
that makes them a better present Center
nerves are simply our body getting us
ready to present and it signals that we
care that we want to do a really good
job and while we can reduce some of the
anxiety around public speaking I don't
think the nerves truly ever go away even
if we become professional keynote
speakers Who tour the world giving
presentations I still think that there
will be some level of nerves so if you
are joining Toast Masters and it makes
you very nervous that that's okay Toast
Masters will reduce your anxiety but the
nerves will always still be there and
when you learn that that's a good thing
it's quite empowering the second thing I
wish I would have known from day one is
to think of content prior to the meeting
with my Toast Masters Club in Canada our
Toastmaster of the week will send an
email illustrating what the theme of the
meeting is and it took me a few years to
figure out this trick but something I do
before every meeting is I think about
that theme and I try to think of a story
or some form of message that relates to
it and I come to the meeting with some
form of preparation this has proved to
be very beneficial for a couple of
reasons the first is that if I am to be
called on in table topics there is a
high percentage chance that I'm going to
be asked a question surrounding what it
is that the theme of the meeting is and
so if I've already gone through the
process of thinking of a story or
something that relates there's a good
chance I can take the question and I can
weave it into that story I already have
in mind and this will come across as if
I'm a table topics Pro because I was
able to take a seemingly random question
and answer it with ease but another big
benefit of coming to the meeting
prepared is that you can step into some
of the roles if somebody doesn't show up
roles like giving the toast or doing the
humorist or inspirational role or some
of the other roles you can step into
because you've already thought a little
bit about the theme and you have
something that you can say so think
about the theme and come to the meeting
prepared with a bit of content another
thing I wish I knew at the very
beginning of my Toast Masters Journey
was the thought of taking on every role
as soon as possible thankfully I did
have a fellow Toastmaster who encouraged
me to start signing up to roles because
I was reluctant at first I almost
thought I'd be taking roles away from
somebody or that I wasn't experienced
enough to be taking on the roles which
is silly Toast Masters want new members
to sign up right away and the quicker
that you can sign up for every different
role it's going to help you so much
throughout your toast Master's Journey
because it's going to take away fear
around some of the rules that you've
procrastinated on for myself it was the
role of Toastmaster I waited so long
before I signed up to be Toastmaster of
the meeting and even to date that is one
of the more difficult or challenging
roles that I find I am reluctant to sign
up for but I really believe had I jumped
in the deep end and and took on that
Toastmaster role even earlier I'd
probably have more confidence around it
today so if you are a new member and
Toast Masters give yourself the goal of
signing up for every different meaning
role within the first few months the
next thing I wish I knew on day one of
joining Toast Masters was to lean more
on my mentor I was given a mentor when I
started with Toast Masters and then a
few weeks later this particular
particular member who was my mentor
stopped attending club meetings and that
was challenging for me because he never
return to the club and of course I was
able to figure things out and thankfully
our Toast Masters Club has a lot of
really great strong members of Toast
Masters who know a lot about what's
going on and they were able to help me
out it would have been nice to have that
single point person to ask additional
questions for so that I didn't have to
go and figure it out on my own and if
you are a new member to Toast Masters
and you have not yet been assigned a
mentor please talk to your Club
president or VP of education and try to
figure out who your Mentor is and then
once you have that Mentor be honest with
them have a conversation go for coffee
have a zoom call whatever works out best
for you but take the accountability of
sharing your goals with your mentor
mentor and be really specific of how you
want your mentor to help you out what
value do you want that individual to
give you if that individual hasn't
reached out don't cross your arms and
get frustrated that they haven't done
anything yet you should be the one
taking the initiative to reach out to
that mentor and tell him or her what it
is you hope to get out of this program
and that will help you build a great
relationship and that will get you more
comfortable with Toast Masters early on
the next thing I wish I knew when I
started out with Toast Masters is that
all feedback is valuable perhaps it was
a little bit of ego early on but when I
would get constructive criticism or
gifts as we call them in the toast
master's
program I would get defensive from time
to time thinking well why is this member
telling me that I need to do this better
I thought I did that really well and
this defensiveness didn't do any benefit
to me I took the Pats on the back and
anything that was negative it wasn't
helping me and I think I could have
grown a lot quicker if I would have
realized that every Toast Masters Club
member wanted to see me succeed and
that's how I feel or started to feel a
couple years into the program as we
would get new members I wanted these
people to improve and when I gave them
gifts or constructive criticism that was
me Tru truly caring and wanting to
elevate them as a speaker and the same
was the flip side so if you get a few
comments that you think are coming
across as negative or telling you how to
improve I'm not saying all of them are
100% correct they're very subjective but
take the benefits the positive out of it
the areas where you think you can
improve a little bit because these other
individuals they're giving you that
feedback so they can help you out and on
the flip side of this all feedback is
valuable that means your feedback is
valuable as well because sometimes as
new Toast Masters were hesitant to give
other people evaluations or pieces of
advice but you have a unique perspective
being new to the club and you should
feel free to voice your opinion and
share with others because if you're
going to be in this program for a long
time you're going to learn that
everyone's Viewpoint is valid in the
program and sometimes it's helpful
having a fresh set of eyes or ears on a
presentation and as a new Toastmaster
that is what you bring it took me
several years to realize this but Toast
Masters helps you become a better
listener just as much as it helps you
become a better speaker and when we
think about the structure of a toast
Master's meeting for many clubs the
first half is all about different
speaking roles where the second half of
the meeting is very focused on
evaluations and to sign up for these
evaluations and to give a solid
evaluation to one of your fellow members
it means you need to be listening
carefully and practicing those active
listening skills and once you start
going to meetings week after week month
after month eventually year after year
you learn that you become a much better
listener this would have been nice to
know from day one that I would improve
my listening skills just as much as my
speaking skills with Toast Masters
another benefit about the Toast Masters
program is that it helps you become a
better leader as well and there are
plenty of leadership opportunities
within
Toastmasters through the pathways
program there are requirements to sign
up for various leadership type
activities and even the way a
Toastmasters Club is structured there is
an executive Council which are various
roles such as president VP of Education
VP of
membership Sergeant at Arms these are
the people who help Toast Masters clubs
Thrive and by signing up for one of
these leadership roles you are getting
deeper in your Club you're helping your
Club Thrive but you're also improving
your own personal leadership skills
which is a massive skill set to have in
any career the final thing I wish I knew
about Toast Masters from from day one
and this is such a positive thing the
fact that it is a long-term commitment I
always laugh when I talk to people and
they talk about Toast Masters as if it
were something that they have graduated
from and they say oh yeah I used to do
Toast Masters 20 years ago it was a good
program but I finished it and in my mind
that's the same as saying yeah I used to
work out at the gym 10 years ago I did
it for about 6 months it was great but I
finished it we know that if you stop
working out that is going to affect your
physical fitness and your shape and your
ability to go for runs and all of those
sorts of things the same goes for public
speaking in the sense of your
presentation skills you could have
learned some things 10 years ago but if
you're not regularly practicing what
you're learning and shaking the rust off
on a regular basis your public speaking
skills just like your muscles with the
fitness example are going to deteriorate
and I have learned this many times
firsthand I've gone sometimes a few
months without attending Toastmasters
meetings and when I come back to the
club I get even more nervous than before
and I notice my voice is a bit shaky and
I'm Rusty and I'm not using body
language
effectively and that is a great reminder
that Toast Masters is something that we
should commit to for for the long term
we should plan to go on a regular basis
just like we get exercise on a regular
basis and this will help us be lifelong
great communicators I hope that I am a
member of Toast Masters 10 years from
now just as I am right now a decade in I
fully intend to be part of this program
for the foreseeable future if you're
thinking about joining a Toast Masters
Club I hope this video These eight
things I wish I knew were helpful to you
in making that decision if you are on
the fence I encourage you take that leap
sign up for your local Toast Masters
Club for me it's been one of the best
clubs I've ever been a part of the
skills that you gain as mentioned not
only speaking but also listening and
Leadership skills are incredibly
valuable for life and you'll probably
meet a great community of
individuals if you are thinking of
taking that Journey consider subscribing
to my YouTube channel because I have
many videos that are going to help you
with your toast Master's Journey from
how to take on various roles to live
examples of me taking on the roles so
you can see how it's done in person I
hope that my channel will provide a lot
of great content for you hit the thumbs
up if this video was helpful to you but
overall thank you so much for watching
this video I will catch you on the next
one